Chair would like to begin the week if he begins this session by welcoming our guest to
the committee room and advising our guests of a standing rule of this committee, which
is that there ought to be no manifestations of approval or participle of any audible
time that any time during the court of these hearings.
We are in part and carry you, we want to conduct them in an atmosphere of seriousness
and while welcome here is our guest because this is public business.
The officers and the plain clothesmen and the audience have a standing instruction from
the committee to politely escort from the room immediately.
Anybody who violates the conditions under which you ask for that admonition, we are
happy to have you here.
We will begin this morning by announcing that the chair has received his reply from the
Attorney General to the letter which is written.
Some time ago in connection with the so-called two and a quarter page document and in the
interest of time I shall not read.
My letter of may sentence in its entirety is a little long but asked to include it in
the record as an exhibit appropriately marked and I will read the significant passage.
The purpose is that the particular you will recall that this dealt with the two and a quarter
page document by the way has been returned and I will ask if the passed on to send a
McCarthy address to his property and in which, so phrasing my letter, I ask the Attorney
General whether his admonition against publishing or releasing the contents of that document
and total tell for all persons and all paragraphs and the significant part of my letter after
reviewing my previous interrogatory of the Attorney General with this.
Would it be possible for you to authorize or clear for you as an exhibit before a subcommittee
any of the paragraphs or questions of the enclosed two and a quarter page document.
It has occurred to some members of the subcommittees of the facts that the two and a quarter
page document may contain the names of some of those still under investigation or being
used as informants could be the basis on which you requested the contents be not developed.
Yes, so perhaps such names could be deleted in other portions of the document release.
Will you please write me your reaction to this request and if you feel it is against the
best security interests of the United States to permit any person at all of the two and
a quarter page document to be used as an exhibit before a subcommittee.
I am sure it will be helpful to us if he will give you a specific reason for making such
a determination.
We, at first, do not want to make public anything which it is deemed that we enjoy you
to our national interest of the flow.
But in our church which was in the current hearings, on the other hand, we would like
to have available for our consideration every fact and document which can be included
in our records without doing violence through the central security consideration.
We would appreciate it if it was as soon as possible and I talked about the enclosures.
I have here the reply from the Attorney General, my dear son.
In reply to your letter of May 10, 1954 for the reasons that forth in my letter of May 6,
it is my opinion that it would not be in the public interest to release the two and one
fourth page document which it would be a copy of a letter or should release any part
thereof.
As I pointed out the document is not so scientific and that it is no such letter was written
by Mr. Jerry A.
The portions of this document which were taken verbatim from the 15-page interdepartmental
FBI Memorandum dated January 26, 1961 by an unidentified person or classified post confidential
and the court.
By law this means they must not be disclosed in the best interest of the national security
Yes, these post confidential post classification of FBI records in Memorandum is not respected,
but serious and irreparable harm will be done to the FBI.
This principle applies with people first to the release of portions of the FBI Memorandum
which are contained in the two and a quarter page document as well as to the Memorandum
as well.
The department has a little consideration of the present time possible violations of the
criminal law of the result of the referral of the transcript of the hearings to the
Department of the Subcommissions.
The two and a quarter page document is involved in the classification of this time, might
affect it virtually or even defeat the proper prosecution of the sentence is involved in
its preparation and dissemination.
This consideration confirms my original opinion that it would not be in the public interest
to be classified as a document or any part of it at the present time since Shirley
Herbick Brown, Illinois, Virginia, Virginia, and I asked that my letter in full, the
don't think this committee is bound by any letter from the Attorney General, he says
now that this is the letter document of what you may to the quarter page document contained
in the case of the case.
The second floor page is from the 15 page Memorandum.
I think this is the chairman and I have not really asked for a ruling upon this this
morning because I think this is gone with the testimony.
I do think the committee should have an executive session and read the two and a quarter
page document now and deal with the fact that it is established as having been taken
for a bit and from a monthly I report.
The final page is with the chairman that has faced an individual at the federal court
of Labor Cards, more than four such for a direction spy even up to the time the trial of
a parent's letter right close to it.
Well, the subject of any further I wish the chairman would call and return the 15th.
The Supreme Court is a committee and the chairman wants for people that should be made public.
I think for people that should be made public, I'm going to put on a stone.
The chairman of the first discussion means the decadence to me means that we have a fair
manner for you.
The letter and the opportunity desire to do it.
The future has agreed to the time of time and I believe that the conclusion of our hearing
from the president to the comedian to the scene is that the discussion with Mr. Adams and
the general area of a kind of order for the election was as the reason he comes from the
difficulty of finding out from Mr. Adams and Mr. Adams finding out that himself is
directly the relationship with certain information which began to discuss it in earlier
years.
So the chairman recognized all of what he had at this time for that purpose, from the time
and the chair would also like to announce that there was just some sense to him that he
has attempted to remove the defunct committee.
A letter from the White House on that said this to be assumed they've been made available
to the president.
One more topic with the Roosevelt.
From that over to you.
And otherwise, I've just enough topic for the committee members that it shows immediately
to the president and the agency, I would be just to say to the president to talk so I
could zoom in.
The president may be available to the president and we'll be shortly.
The secretary is a letter to the secretary of defense from the president of the United
States.
I see Mr. Chairman in the last minute.
I've seen this document for the first time.
They are respectfully to the committee that I'm thinking about this over the weekend.
I've heard of the only two reasons why Mr. Adams, a member of the executive branch,
would bring this matter up voluntarily.
He's named up voluntarily in these hearings.
The court would be calisthency, which is because he has been legally trained and has eminent counsel.
I would doubt.
The second would be that for whatever reason it was.
Perhaps he wanted support.
More probably.
Based on my exact strength executive department, he had worked it out that if the name came
in, the information with respect to the meeting would be available.
And as much as all this committee is trying to do, is find the truth.
I was very glad to cooperate with what I thought were the desires of the administration and
bringing this information into the hearing voluntarily to get the truth of that meeting, which
apparently, based on this Adam being there, was called in order to discuss those situations
and those matters which are such great interest to this committee in attempting to find the truth.
Not having had an opportunity, Mr. Chairman, to read this directive from the court.
It's letter from the first United States for any further comments on this matter.
On my part, I'd appreciate the opportunity of reading the letter and perhaps discussing it further this afternoon.
Mr. Chairman, just by unanimous consent, that the copy of the letter also be inserted in the hearing
to first point and mark this inappropriate exhibit number.
Mr. Chairman, I point out that there is about a 10-page memorandum from the Attorney General attached to the president's letter
and it also should be inserted.
Chair Greek, and just the end-hand document, John, is okay.
I'm debit number 20, and the letter with the attached pages to memorandum.
Dr. Sonny McCartney?
Do you wish me to read that?
Under each whole memorandum, it's a pretty long memorandum.
I think there's no objection.
We might as well read the address.
Do you have the copy of the letter that the other is for?
Yes, sir.
And then the test right after that will put the memorandum.
This is a letter signed to write the out-of-the-hour address to the honorable for Secretary of Defense Washington DC, Mr. Secretary.
It has long been recognized that it is to Congress in achieving its legislative services
for every executive department or agency month upon the request of a congressional committee.
Expeditiously furnish information relating to any matter within the jurisdiction of the committee,
with certain historical exceptions, some of which are pointed out in the attached memorandum from the Attorney General.
This administration has been and will continue to be diligent in following this principle.
However, it is essential to the successful working of our system that the person that trusted with power
can any one of the three great branches of government shall not encroach upon the authority
and fight it to the others.
The ultimate responsibility for the conduct of the executive branch rests with the president.
Within this constitutional framework, each branch should cooperate fully with each other for the common good.
However, throughout our history, the president has whittled information whenever he found that what was thought was confidential
or his disclosure would be incompatible with the public interest for jeopardized the safety of the nation.
Because it is essential to efficient and effective administration that employees of the executive branch be in a position
to be completely canvas in advising with each other on official matters,
and because it is not in the public interest that any of their conversations or communications
or any document or reproductions concerning such advice be disclosed,
you will instruct employees of your department that in all of their appearances before the federal committee of the Senate Committee on Government Operations,
regarding the inquiry now before it, they are not too testify to any such conversations or communications
or to produce any such document or reproductions.
This principle must be maintained regardless of who would benefit by such disclosures.
I direct this action, so as to maintain the proper separation of powers between the executive and legislative branches of the government,
in accordance with my responsibilities and duties under the Constitution.
This separation is vital to preclude the exercise of arbitrary power by any branch of the government.
By this action, I am not in any way restricting the testimony of such witnesses as to what occurred regarding any matter
where the communication was directly between any of the principles in the controversy within the executive branch on the one hand
and the member of the subcommittee or its staff on the other.
Stimsterily, Dwight D. Eisenhower, to this letter, sir, is attached a 10-page memorandum from the Attorney General to the president.
Thank you.
And, of course, none of us has had an opportunity to read these memorandums, which is rather lengthy,
and they could look at it and share notes just to begin with the line of precedence starting March 1792
under the administration of President Washington.
Include there's great many references down to history, including several under the administration of President Roosevelt,
and ten cases under the administration of President Trump.
And the chair believes, along with Senator Simon-Tonley, would want to have a little time to look over this memorandum and attach the gibbet before trying to make any quick snap judgments.
The writer and eight Mr. Chairman, and the letter is dated May 17, 1954, which is today.
Yes.
No, two, one, three.
You may have my documents in survey.
If you try to, he will...
Chair will then proceed with the ordinary ten-minute rule, and start with Mr. Jenkins, if you have further questions, Mr. S.
Chairman, I have no further questions.
Chair has one or two that he will ask at this time, may have some little later.
You will recall, Mr. Adams, because you were in the room during this entire hearing,
that a number of questions were asked Secretary Steve about a telephone call that he had with you, and you had with him,
involving if the chair recalls correctly, two calls the same day.
At this time, you were at the New York, or New Jersey, under the line, and Secretary Steven was here,
and involving the status of General Lawman's command.
And the Secretary at that time suggested that he was asking you, the chair has ever been asked a question. Do you point it forward?
I have a private question, Mr. Chair.
While the chair is asking you, what is the question, or is he asking you to interrupt him, what is the deal with this question?
I am not going to chair the pose of the previous movement, yes.
The chair is the pose of a temporary, and he is under the line to continue with his question, and during your time in a period,
you may get back to that business, or some of the time in the neighborhood, and nobody has the question now.
I was talking about Mr. Chair, I would like to ask the chair a question here.
Chair is really, we see he wouldn't interrupt him in the middle of a question, and he is asking the what?
When the chair is asking the question, would the chair's position direct the question, and would like to continue with that,
and interrupt him, like you object to the question.
When the chair is asking the question, I would like to ask the chair, and I would like to ask the chair,
and I would like to have an appropriate time, Chair, recognize it.
Before the interruption, will you read the question as far as I have got the case before?
Thank you.
Well, we'll recall Mr. Adam, since you were in the room during this entire hearing,
that a number of questions were asked by Secretary Steven about a telephone call,
that he had with you and you had the panel involving, if the chair recalls correctly,
to call the same date, at which time you were in New York or New Jersey,
at the New York or New Jersey, at the end of the land, and Secretary Steven was here,
and involving the status of General Lawman's command, Mr. Adam's, I do serve,
Central Month, is Secretary at that time suggesting?
Well, we were unable to recall phone conversations in the ESC about,
could you reconsider, we could picture it as deeply as possible,
and make sure first of all of the original calls, I think, came from the Secretary to you.
My recollection, sir, is that, on the afternoon of November 24th,
I'm not sure whether it was the 24th, but the call around two different days,
I was in my hotel room in the Commodore Hotel at the end of the day,
and I had telephoned the Secretary for the purpose of reporting to him the occurrences of today,
and during the course of the conversation he states to me,
that a matter has come to his attention, which is dear to you,
and that said, if it were true, it might be ground for him to have to leave General Lawman of this command.
He did not detail it, but he pointed out to me that it was not him's turn,
was the fact, and it would not relate us to the fact that General Lawman has been cooperated
with the Secretary of the Immacate and this committee.
He asked me to see if I could find the time to see General McCarthy and Francis out through,
and I could make sure General McCarthy understands,
and that gives the move to be necessary.
That is, if the allegation is true, to be true, and if he found the necessary to take the act,
that Senator McCarthy would understand, that his action was based on the fact that,
that on facts is different from the fact that General Lawman had been cooperating with the committee.
That is about the substance of the first conversation.
He is very summary to say that what the Secretary had asked you to do was to discuss with the Senator the possibility
that the threat, and a lot of my people moved in to determine the Secretary's reaction by the threat,
that was the nature of the first call.
That is correct. Now we will go to this for the second call, which I think are originated with you to the Secretary.
Yes, sir. I might describe to you the intervening event, because I recall very good.
Senator McCarthy made a radio broadcast, you tell me in broadcast that night,
and I saw him after the broadcast, and I saw Mr. Com also.
I don't recall that I mentioned this at that time, but I very well may have.
I saw them the following morning.
I saw Mr. Com before I saw Senator McCarthy.
If I mention them as Mr. Com before I mention it, Mr. Com.
The fact that the Secretary was thinking of radio, then a lot of them.
I will point it out to him, that's a Secretary to call me, and he was disturbed about allegations,
which is about his attention to that, mean, talk, Senator McCarthy.
Mr. Com, to get to the violation of talk, Senator McCarthy about his first,
which I did not do sometimes within the next half day.
I talked, both in the next few hours.
I thought that matter of the time, I saw Mr. C.
that said, had he the allegations, and that he might find it necessary to be the officer,
and that he had asked me to tell him about it, and to assure him that his decision
released became necessary, so it was not me, because the fact that the officer had colloquially
committed my recollection of our conversation here, that Senator McCarthy was a whistledist,
a well-welded, well-welded, long-smitted, but in any case, that it's a Secretary's promise
necessary to do that, he would understand.
Later on in the day, we talked about the matters that together as lunch, I think, Senator McCarthy
had been home, and at that time Senator McCarthy indicated from the looked up, indicated to me
that he hoped that if Mr. C.
C.
appreciates the general law, and it has been friendly with the committee.
Later in the day, in the middle of the afternoon, I was back in Mr. C.
C.
We cannot play anything, he might be forced into the position where he would have to make comment about it,
and that he had asked for a whole ‑‑ that if, if we're necessary for the Secretary
to do this, he could see further, until about the first of the year, by which time, probably,
the investigation effort might have been over for five or six weeks or so, and that
there will not be respectillation in the press.
Now, recollection is, as Mr. Stevens stated, something to be effective.
He couldn't comment.
It might be that these things would be proved, and that they would be a serious nature,
and that he would have to move.
I, of course, did not relate that statement to Senator McCarthy, but the conversation was more or less
up in the air.
I think Senator McCarthy was left with the impression that I had advised Mr. Stevens of
his reluctance to move.
I think Senator McCarthy was left with the impression that I had advised Mr. Stevens of his
reluctance to move.
I'm very good conversation as I remember.
You say Senator McCarthy and Mr. Cohn both heard your head of the conversation.
They were in the room, sir.
The room is not large.
Until there were other things going on in the room, but there is no reason why they
shouldn't have overheard all of it.
I said I'd made no effort to confuse it.
They knew you were calling Secretary Stevens at that time, and I met him.
Yes, sir.
And as a matter of fact, General Lawton was not running with, but most of
he was not.
And I believe there's still some men that's just one who are in law.
I'll pass you into another topic.
Do you want to ask me, or don't see the senator, Senator?
Now, do you have a project or another topic?
Do you know of your own personal knowledge, Mr. Adams, whether it's in fact, prior to
time, we see you structure as little secrets at any time to which you would have been
touched as they filled you in unanimous state armor.
From my own personal knowledge, sir, I do not.
I ask you this question that is counsel for the Army.
In the event it develops.
In checking the investigation, checking the Inspector General's report, you will study the
facts.
In the event it develops as deep private, and as a matter of fact, we see structural
treatment as a member of the United States Army, which he was not in fact.
Who is responsible for that fact?
The Army officers who gave him the preferential treatment for the members of the committee staff
have asked for it.
Sir, you're asking me a question, and it's very difficult to answer.
Sir, I'm just right down here at Ali, but you're the comforter of the Army.
And you have to advise somebody on that.
This is the one question with the two of the men in the debate.
Now you're talking my line of truth.
And now the question is ready again for you to show it.
Do you eat the first one?
In the event it develops through checking the investigation, checking the Inspector General's
report, through a study of the facts.
In the event that it develops as deep private, and the fact it develops as deep private,
and the fact it develops as deep private, and the fact it develops as deep private,
and the fact it receives preferential treatment as a member of the United States Army,
to which he was not entitled, to whom it would be responsible for that fact.
The Army officers who gave him the preferential treatment for the members of the committee staff
have asked for it.
Sir, I think the third answer is that the Army is responsible for it, ministering the Army.
The ultimate responsibility is in the Secretary.
The Supportment Command have responsibility delegated to them.
And it would be necessary to determine who the need is responsible.
It may be decided that there has been fault in my part in passing on information
to the various echelons of command, and indicating that there was a desire for preferential treatment.
He has been so fond of the idea that he would be involved.
If it were to be determined that the Secretary had directed preferential treatment, he would be involved.
If it were to be prepared for the Chairman, as they did not seem to allow any particular individual in the Army,
to hold responsible for preferential treatment which may not have taken place,
but it would establish if he can to a record that the gift of preferential treatment
were actually according to the charge.
It would be a responsibility if somebody was the Army just leaving it covered that incorrect.
Yes, sir, I think it is correct, but it is fundamental in the government
that where an individual has the authority, he also has responsibility.
Thanks, sir.
A record answer to the three answer.
My time has expired, sending the phone.
Thank you.
As the latter will remember, I mean, we have this morning, the letter,
we read this morning from the White House through the Secretary of Defense,
according to my current interpretation of it, and I've only glassed that at once.
You consider that you are now under direct orders.
The new channels from the White House not to divulge any conversation that took place in the conference.
I believe you say was held on January 21st when I say conference,
I mean, referred to that meeting, attended, held, and Mr. Bownell was all-fus-appended
by the Attorney General, Mr. Rodgers, and his presidential assistant, Mr. Sherwin Adams,
and others.
You consider now that you cannot give any information to this committee
and view that directive with respect to what occurred there at that time.
The head on the conversations that took place, I do so, and I saw this memorandum
about 20 minutes before you did.
I placed the interpretation on the audience at this time that I am now prohibited from speaking
about the conference which I have had.
As young you often give it to the phones.
Saying what occurred in a conversation that took place,
you are not prohibited from saying that a conference was held, are you?
I am not telling, I don't think I am prohibited from saying that a conference has been said
I have already stated that.
You have already stated that.
It was a conference regarding this conference that has been developed
as a subject matter of it.
Does it not?
Yes, sir.
Now, on that, I ask you this question and view that statement that the Adam was the action
taken thereafter after that conference.
He had taken on the faces of the independent decision and judgment of the Secretary of the Army,
or was it taken as a result of the decision made at that conference?
Yes.
Now, have I explained the index case?
Questions?
I have led to ask you this question and view that statement, Mr. Adams.
Was the action taken thereafter after that conference?
Yes.
Token on the faces of the independent decision.